[VOICE OVER] The main types of cards are
Visa, Mastercard, American Express,
and Discover.
Beyond credit cards, there are numerous
card types that can be used in place of money.
Debit cards are the most known example.
Some lesser-known examples include gift cards,
prepaid cards, international cards, store cards,
and electronic benefit cards.
Please note: As you progress through the module,
anytime you see a reference to credit cards,
know that the information applies to any of
these payment card types.
Even though there are many types of cards, they
all follow the same security rules.
These rules are defined by the Payment Card
Industry or (PCI) Security Standards Council.
This group is responsible for creating and
updating the many policies and rules that
govern the credit card industry.
The goal is to enhance global payment account
data security worldwide.
If your organization handles any of these card types,
then the payment card security rules will apply to you.
So what card information is important to protect?
The most sensitive credit card information,
and thus the most valuable to the bad guys,
is called “cardholder data”.
This includes:
● The 16-digit “PAN,” or primary account number.
You typically call this your card number.
● The three- or four-digit security code.
You have likely heard this code referred
to as the CVV – card verification value,
or CVC – card verification code.
For Visa, Mastercard, and Discover, it is the
three-digit code found on the back of the card.
For American Express, it is the four-digit code on
the front of the card.
AND
● The “PIN,” or personal identification number.
This is a secret numerical code known only by
the user and the security system.
It is required by some cards before they can be used.